[INDISTINCT YELLING]
MAN:
I don't wanna be a product
of my environment.
I want my environment
to be a product of me.
Years ago, we had the Church.
That was only a way of saying
we had each other.
[CROWD CHEERING]
But now, I don't know,
it's a funny thing.
I-- I'm, uh--
It put hate in your heart.
MAN:
The Knights of Columbus
were real head-breakers,
true guineas.
They took over
their piece of the city.
Twenty years after an Irishman
couldn't get a fucking job,
we had the presidency--
May he rest in peace.
That's what the niggers
don't realize.
If I got one thing
against the black chappies,
it's this.
No one gives it to you.
You have to take it.
[THE ROLLING STONE'S
"GIMME SHELTER" PLAYING]
♪ Ooh, a storm is threatening ♪
♪ My very life today ♪
♪ If I don't get
Some shelter... ♪
Vin, don't make me have to come
down here again for this.
Won't happen again,
Mr. C.
♪ War, children ♪
♪ It's just a shot away... ♪
Carmen's developing
into a fine young lady.
You should be proud.
♪ It's just a shot away ♪
♪ It's just a shot away
Yeah ♪
You get your period yet,
Carmen?
♪ Ooh, see the fire
Is sweeping ♪
♪ Our very street today ♪
♪ Burns like
A red coal carpet ♪
♪ Mad bull lost its way ♪
♪ War, children... ♪
You Johnny Sullivan's kid?
You live
with your grandmother?
Yeah.
Vin, get him couple
loaves of bread,
couple half-gallons
of milk.
You like bologna
and cheese?
Give him
some cold cuts.
Throw some mayo in.
You like comic books?
You do good in school?
Yeah.
That's good.
I did too.
They call that a paradox.
Just keep it.
Buy yourself some makeup.
[COINS JINGLING]
You ever wanna earn
a little extra money,
you come by L Street.
You know where I am
on L Street?
Good.
Good boy.
Thanks.
♪ Rape, murder... ♪
PRIEST:
To you, O Lord,
we commend the soul
of Alphonsus, your servant.
In the sight of this world,
he is now dead.
Forgive whatever sins
he committed
through human weakness.
Amen.
COSTELLO:
Church wants you in your place.
Kneel, stand, kneel, stand.
You go for that
sort of thing,
I don't know
what to do for you.
A man makes his own way.
No one gives it to you.
Have to take it.
Non serviam.
James Joyce.
Smart, Colin.
Guineas from the North End,
down Providence,
try to tell me what to do,
and, uh, something maybe
happened to 'em, uh...
Maybe, uh...like that.
[WOMAN SCREAMS]
♪ Kiss away ♪
♪ Kiss away, kiss away ♪
COSTELLO:
Jeez.
She fell funny.
[CHUCKLES]
Frances, you really
should see somebody.
COSTELLO:
When you decide
to be something,
you can be it.
That's what they don't
tell you in the Church.
When I was your age,
they would say
we could become cops
or criminals.
Today, what I'm saying
to you is this.
When you're facing
a loaded gun...
what's the difference?
Hmm?
That's my boy.
[♪♪♪]
MAN:
...ballistics is the study
of a projectile
as it hits a target
and the destruction
that it causes.
Take, for instance,
what you carry,
9 mm hollow-point.
When the hollow point actually
hits the skull,
what happens is it mushrooms
and when it mushrooms,
it peels back.
So may have six, eight,
10 little particles
of the bullet
that are like razor blades...
ALL: Sir, yes, sir.
INSTRUCTOR: ...tearing their
internal organs,
their lungs, their heart,
tissue, bone, blood,
brain matter.
That's called a blowback.
[CROWD CHEERING]
[GRUNTING]
Fuck you.
Fucking queers.
Firemen getting pussy
for the first time
in the history of fire
or pussy.
Hey, go save a kitten in a tree,
you fucking homos.
INSTRUCTOR:
Pencils.
[TICKING]
Begin.
MAN:
What are you looking at?
Oh, forget it.
Your father was a janitor,
his son's only a cop.
[SIGHS]
Fucking firefighters
are a bunch of homos.
[CHUCKLING]
They are.
MAN: So she tells me,
you never finish anything.
You finish
the police course,
get taken care
of again, baby.
So after graduation,
I get a blowjob again.
That's great, your mother
must be a wonderful woman.
Fuck yourself.
Put it this way,
you're a black guy in Boston.
You don't need any help from me
to be completely fucked.
MAN:
The Massachusetts State Police
has a long tradition
of excellence.
Your graduation today
solidifies your acceptance
into one of the finest
law enforcement agencies
in our nation.
As the governor
of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts,
I am confident
each and every one of you
will serve with distinction,
honor and integrity.
MAN 2:
Congratulations
to all our new troopers.
Thank you.
You are dismissed.
[CROWD APPLAUDING]
[BAGPIPES PLAYING]
Sullivan, assigned
to plainclothes
right out of the gig.
Congratulations.
Wanna come for a beer?
No.
I'll catch up
with you guys.
[CHUCKLES]
School's out.
Thank you, Frank.
You earned it.
No more pencils,
no more books.
All right.
MAN 1:
This is the state police!
MAN 2: And fire!
[GUNSHOTS]
MAN 1:
Your training illustrates
the difference.
State police,
search warrant!
open the door!
MAN 1: What's the difference?
Ugh! Go, go, go, go!
[INDISTINCT SHOUTING]
Is that understood?
MAN 3: Sir, yes, sir!
MEN:
Sir, yes, sir!
Get the fuck down
right now!
Get down right now!
[INDISTINCT SHOUTING]
[GUNSHOTS ECHOING]
MAN:
Congratulations on passing
the detective's exam
and welcome
to the Special
Investigation Unit.
Yeah,
whoop-de-fucking-do.
We won't be working together,
that is, directly.
You'll be working
for Captain Ellerby,
but I like
to see everybody.
You're a worker.
You rise fast.
Like
a 12-year-old's dick.
Thank you, sergeant.
My pleasure.
Thank you, sir.
Good luck.
Congratulations.
Thanks, hon.
You can go
in there now.
[DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
You can sit.
[CLEARS THROAT]
So...
Do you know what we do here,
my section?
Sir, yes, sir. I have an idea.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Let's say you have no idea
and leave it at that,
okay?
No idea.
Zip, none.
If you had an idea
about what we do,
we would not be good
at what we do,
would we?
We would be cunts.
You calling us cunts?
Staff Sergeant Dignam
has a style of his own.
I'm afraid we all have
to get used to it.
So...
you got
family connections
down in Southie, right?
Through your father?
Why don't you tell us
about your Uncle Jackie?
He was a carpet layer
for Jordan Marsh.
Uncle Jackie was
a small-time bookie
who tended bar at the Vets
in Somerville.
He got popped
by Nicastro in '95.
We found his body
out by the airport.
That's right.
I remember his funeral.
Well, good.
Closed casket?
That's right.
So...
tell anybody
up at Deerfield--
Before you got kicked out
for whaling on a teacher
with a chair.
--how your uncle met
his demise like that?
I got a question.
How fucked up are you?
[♪♪♪]
[COLIN WHISTLES]
Hi, Darlene.
What you got,
staff sergeant?
In no time,
you made sergeant.
SIU, what a country.
Heh. Perfect.
Hey, I don't mind
going it alone.
You know, if you went alone
once in a while,
you might get somewhere.
We're cops, all right?
This isn't somewhere.
All right, lookit,
I know you're a worker.
Maybe I can do something
for you.
You got any suits at home
or you like coming to work
dressed like you're gonna
invade Poland?
DIGNAM:
You got quite
the family tree here, kid.
That maggot uncle of yours,
Tommy Costigan, is another goof.
He gets busted selling guns
to federal officers,
among many, many,
many other departures
from our normative behavior.
And what's this got
to do with me, huh?
Why are you pretending
to be a cop?
MAN:
This unit is new and you are
the newest members of it.
You have been selected for it
on the basis
of intelligence and aptitude.
This is an elite unit.
Our job is to smash
or marginally disrupt--
[LAUGHTER]
--organized crime in the city
by enhanced cooperation
with the FBI,
represented here today
by Agent Frank Lazio.
And we will do it.
And by organized crime
in this city,
you know who we mean.
That's Jackie Costigan.
That's an old picture.
Jackie met his demise.
Last known photograph.
[LAUGHTER]
Costello uses
three key guys.
That's Fitzy,
off-the-boat psycho,
lives in Brockton
with his mother.
She's straight
out of Going My Way.
[LIGHT LAUGHTER]
Delahunt, muscle.
French, the number one,
but of course the rock star,
you-know-who.
We've done a briefing book,
so read up.
I want any and all ideas
so I can pass them off
as my own.
[LAUGHTER]
Work hard and you'll rise fast.
You're in the best position
in the department.
Let's go to work.
DIGNAM:
Your old man
was a fucking hump
from Southie.
Baggage handler
at the airport.
Right?
Family's all criminals,
except for the old man.
And one priest,
since you know everything.
Last I heard,
he was happily married
to a 12-year-old boy,
living on a beach
in Thailand.
Fucking family's dug into
the Southie projects like ticks.
Three-decker men at best.
You, however, grew up
on the North Shore, huh?
Well, la-di-fucking-da.
You were kind of a double kid,
I bet, right?
Huh?
One kid with your old man,
one kid with your mother...
You're upper-middle class
during the weeks,
then you're hanging
in the big bad Southie projects
with your daddy, the fucking
donkey, on weekends.
I got that right?
Yep.
You have different accents?
You did, didn't you,
you little fucking snake.
You were like
different people.
You a psychiatrist?
Well, if I was,
I'd ask you
why you're a statie
making 30 grand a year.
And I think if I was
Sigmund fucking Freud,
I wouldn't get an answer.
So tell me,
what's a lace-curtain
motherfucker like you
doing in the staties?
Families are always rising
and falling in America,
am I right?
Who said that?
Hawthorne.
Pfft! What's the matter?
You don't know any Shakespeare?
We have a question.
Do you wanna be a cop,
or do you wanna appear
to be a cop?
It's an honest question.
A lot of guys wanna appear
to be cops:
gun, badge,
pretend they're on TV.
A lot of 'em wanna slam
a nigger's head
through a window.
I'm all set without
your personal job application.
The fuck did you say?
All due respect,
what do you want from me?
Hey, asshole. He can't help you.
I know what you are,
okay?
and I know what you're not.
I'm the best friend
you have on this earth.
I'm gonna help you understand
something, punk.
You're no fucking cop!
QUEENAN:
He's right.
We deal in deception here.
What we do not deal with
is self-deception.
Five years from now,
you could be anything
else in the world.
But you will be not be
a Massachusetts state trooper.
You sure of that?
I'm sure of that.
Guaran-fucking-teed.
[♪♪♪]
DIGNAM:
You got 1400
on your SATs, kid.
You're an astronaut,
not a statie.
You don't have much family.
I don't have any family.
MAN:
What's this I hear
from Stephanie
about you becoming
a policeman?
You mean Stephanie
who was the only one
who came
to my father's funeral?
That-- That Stephanie?
Yeah, that Stephanie.
Nothing much to it,
Uncle Edward.
Well, you trying to prove
something to the family?
When you say "the family,"
who do you mean exactly? You?
UNCLE EDWARD:
You always have to question
everything, don't you?
Maybe it would
have done you some good
to have some questions
from time to time.
"Am I an asshole?
"Are my kids a mess?
Is my wife
a money-grubbing whore?"
Heh. I mean,
those are questions, right?
"Have I ever been good
to my dying sister,
or am I just now
pretending to be?"
Do you need some money
for the funeral?
When my mother dies, we don't
have any more connection.
MAN:
It's very lovely.
You get the high ceilings.
You get the parquet floors.
The bathroom is massive.
The, uh, fridge,
it's got an alarm in it,
in case you have,
you know, eating issues...
which is a joke,
not a very funny one.
There's a great view
of the statehouse.
Beacon Hill,
if you can see it.
You move in, you're upper class
by about Tuesday.
So you're a cop?
Yeah,
a state-police detective.
State-police detective.
And are you a married
state-police detective, or....?
No.
'Cause it's kind of a--
Sort of a big place, and--
I have a cosigner.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, you intend to have
a houseguest, that's cool.
Good.
Yeah, it's got--
Just give me the papers.
Sure.
PRIEST:
Eternal rest grant
unto her, O, Lord.
And let perpetual light
shine upon her.
ALL: Amen.
PRIEST: May she rest in peace.
Amen. May her soul and the souls
of all the faithful departed,
through the mercy of God,
rest in peace.
Amen.
[♪♪♪]
So what do I do?
There's money
behind this operation.
You won't be paid
as a regular cop,
but there's a bonus
involved.
Tax free.
We can't conceal
that you were a trainee.
You'll be convicted
of a crime.
We're thinking a guilty plea
to assault and battery
would make sense.
Given your nature.
You do enough jail time
to convince anyone
this is no setup.
You'd be on probation,
see a court-ordered shrink,
the whole nine yards.
You wanna serve
the Commonwealth,
this is your chance.
We need you, pal.
You've already pretended to be
a Costigan from South Boston.
Every weekend, sergeant.
Perfect.
Do it again.
For me.
[THE DROPKICK MURPHYS' "I'M
SHIPPING UP TO BOSTON" PLAYING]
♪ I'm a sailor peg ♪
♪ And I've lost my leg ♪
♪ Climbing up the topsails ♪
♪ I lost my leg ♪
Hey, you Billy Costigan?
Yeah,
who wants to know?
Oh, nothing.
I know a Sean Costigan
down on L Street.
That's my cousin.
Connected,
not too bright.
Yeah, I know.
I mean, no offense.
♪ ...to Boston
Whoa-oh-oh ♪
♪ I'm shippin' off ♪
♪ To find my wooden leg ♪
♪ I'm a sailor peg ♪
♪ And I lost my leg-- ♪
Billy?
Yeah, it's me.
Oh, my God.
Aunt Kathy, how are you?
Good to see you.
Oh, good to see you.
Come on in.
They said you was
in the staties.
I couldn't believe it.
I got kicked out,
like, four months ago.
Yeah, it was
in the papers.
So you know.
And, uh...why are we graced
with your presence?
I brought your mother
some pictures of my father.
AUNT KATHY:
Oh, look at the smile.
BILLY:
My mother had them.
My, uh...
My mother's dead.
Oh, God. I'm sorry.
Sorry for your troubles.
I was at
a funeral myself, uh...
Myles Kennefick.
Knew him in school.
He was a young guy,
you know?
It's terrible, it's a shame.
You remember that. What a night.
Listen. Listen.
I got like...
Like 30,000 bucks,
right?
Insurance money.
Yeah.
You know,
after my mother passed.
Yeah. Yeah.
In your line of work,
if I gave you
like, what,
say 10,000...
what could I get back?
You know what you...
You know what you usually say
at these moments.
What?
Come on, man.
Ah, come on,
you fucking moron.
Come on.
What, you want me
to say it?
Huh?
[CLEARS THROAT]
I'm not a cop,
all right?
I'm your fucking cousin.
Yeah, you're bad.
[LAUGHS]
You corrupt fuck, man.
You must be my cousin.
♪ 'Hood haunted like the Dakota
Where John Lennon was shot... ♪
SEAN:
Fucking Ricans
think they know everything.
If they knew shit,
they wouldn't be Puerto Ricans.
R is for Ricans.
P is for pigs.
BILLY:
Would you shut
the fuck up
for five seconds, huh?
That's right.
You used to be a cop.
When we're working together,
limit it
to two eight-balls
an hour, all right?
We're not supposed
to be doing this
this close to Worcester.
This side of Worcester.
Says who?
Says him.
Says, uh, Costello.
God says,
as far as you're...
concerned.
♪ Started '87 with the shotty
In the-- ♪
SEAN:
No, no, no, he's no cop.
He got out of the joint
three weeks ago.
MAN: Cunt cop.
SEAN: No, no, no.
He's-- He talks
like his shit don't stink,
but he's good people.
Well,
I knew his father.
I liked his
Uncle Jackie better.
Jackie was all right.
Uncle Jackie was excellent.
Mmm.
Fucking guineas.
To Jackie.
SEAN: Uncle Jackie.
FRENCH: Sláinte.
Cranberry juice.
It's a natural diuretic.
My girlfriend drinks it
when she's got her period.
What, do you got
your period?
[THE ALLMAN BROTHERS BAND'S
"ONE WAY OUT" PLAYING]
Now who's got
their fucking period, huh?!
Hey, get your fucking hands
off me!
Hey. Hey.
Do you know me?
No. No.
Well, I'm the guy that tells you
there are guys you can hit
and there's guys you can't.
Now that's not quite a guy
you can't hit,
but it's almost a guy
you can't hit.
So I'm gonna make a fucking
ruling on this right now.
You don't fucking hit him.
You understand?
[PANTING]
Yeah, excellent. Fine.
Fine, fine.
I fucking know you.
I know your family.
You make
one more drug deal
with that idiot fucking
cop-magnet of a cousin of yours,
and I'll forget your grandmother
was so nice to me.
I'll cut your fucking nuts off.
You understand that?
♪ 'Cause there's a man
Down there ♪
Yeah.
Yeah, I do.
What are you drinking?
♪ 'Cause there's a man
Down there ♪
♪ Might be your man ♪
[CLEARS THROAT]
♪ I don't know ♪
A cranberry juice.
What is it, your period?
♪ Lord, it just might happen
To be your man ♪
Get him a cranberry juice.
♪ Oh, it just might
Be your man ♪
♪ Mm, mm, mm-mm
Mm, mm, mm-mm... ♪
Hey, fuckhead,
that's Jackie's nephew.
Oh...
What?
Oh, fucking what?
[MAN GRUNTING]
Get the fuck outta here.
Sorry I'm late.
Staff Sergeant Dignam
is our liaison
to the undercover section.
His undercover work
is extensive.
He's here to give us
his report.
Sergeant Dignam.
Okay.
My people are out there.
They're like fucking Indians.
You're not gonna see 'em,
you're not gonna hear about 'em,
except through me
or Captain Queenan.
You will not ever
know the identity
of undercover people.
Unfortunately, this shithole has
more leaks than the Iraqi navy.
Fuck yourself.
I'm tired
from fucking your wife.
How's your mother?
Tired from fucking my father.
DIGNAM:
Good. Today, girls,
what I have for you
is microprocessors.
Somebody,
as you may already know,
stole 20 microprocessors
from the Mass Processor company
out on Route 128.
These are the kind of processors
they put into computers
that can put a cruise missile
up the ass of a camel
from a couple hundred
miles away.
These pieces of plastic
are worth
about a hundred grand apiece.
Now get this.
A guy working there two months
walks out the front door
with a box of processors
on Tuesday,
has a ticket booked
for Florida on Wednesday,
but on Thursday,
he gets found in a Dumpster.
You know where that dirt ball
started his life?
Southie projects.
What was his name?
The departed?
Myles Kennefick.
Got the job
with a forged UMass transcript.
UMass, Boston,
which happens to be in--
South Boston?
Oh, you're
a fucking genius, huh?
Who forged your transcript,
dickhead?
Hey, this guy--
His old man runs
the Hibernian Liquor Mart.
Kennefick's.
We're not here to solve
the case of the missing scumbag.
We're here to nail Costello.
All right, look.
We got a guy,
says he hears
Costello's moving
the processors to China.
He set up the whole fucking job
and popped Kennefick.
You do not want to miss it
if Costello takes a dump.
We'd miss a lot less
if you made your informants
available to us
and the Bureau.
Without asking
for too many details,
do you have anyone
in with Costello presently?
Maybe. Maybe not.
Maybe fuck yourself.
My theory on Feds
is they're like mushrooms.
Feed 'em shit
and keep them in the dark.
You girls have a good day.
[CHUCKLING]
Normally he's a very,
uh, nice guy.
[LAUGHTER]
Don't judge him
from this meeting alone.
Now, Mrs. Kennefick,
I knew your son.
I knew Myles.
Now, he was younger than me,
but he was behind me in school.
I wanna get these people
who did this to him.
Would you like to help us?
You wanna help us
catch the people
who forced your son to do
a robbery and then killed him?
Allegedly.
If he was killed,
he probably did something wrong.
But not the robbery.
That's not wrong.
He did something else wrong?
[♪♪♪]
Wave to your girlfriend,
honey.
I mean,
fuck yourself.
Did you get that?
"Allegedly"
or "fuck yourself"?
Welcome to the neighborhood.
Different breed
down here, sarge.
I need a cup
of coffee.
[BELL DINGS]
You making a house call?
Have I seen you professionally?
No, no. No, I know-- I know
who you are, though. I know.
Guys gotta use
their service revolver
in the course of duty,
and then they get to come
to talk to you
about their feelings
and whatnot.
No, no,
I know how it goes.
You're a mental health
professional.
Yeah, I have an appointment
on this floor.
Oh, well,
you'll have fun.
They're all freaking crazy
on that floor.
I'm one more up.
Oh, fancy policeman.
Yeah, that's right.
Fancy.
Are you a statie?
Uh, yeah, I am.
I'm-- I'm actually going
to law school also, though.
Oh, Suffolk, nights?
Well, yeah, they don't
run Harvard at night,
last time I checked.
When's the last time
you checked?
Before I went
to fucking Suffolk.
Okay, listen, I went to UMass.
I-- I wasn't insulting you.
Well, I thought you were.
So now you gotta buy me dinner.
Maybe you can shoot someone
and then you'd have
to see me professionally.
I'll stab someone in the heart
with a fucking ice pick
if it gets me dinner with you.
Come on!
No, no. That's all right.
I'm a detective. I'll find you.
No, sorry. I'm just joking.
I need the card. Card helps.
Nice to meet you...Madolyn.
[CELL PHONE VIBRATING]
Hi, Dad. I had no idea about
the tail until I saw it.
No, I couldn't.
I had the other guy with me,
I couldn't--
All right, it's a blue sedan
and then a white van.
It's fucked up with graffiti
on the side.
And the van
is the audio surveillance.
All right, have a nice day.
Cut him here.
Bye-bye.
[TIRES SCREECHING]
MAN:
Jerk-ass!
MAN 1:
Come on, Babu.
I can't do anymore.
I cannot hold off.
Please don't let me
go back empty-handed.
Don't do this.
I wanna help you.
MAN 2:
Come to my store next Friday.
I'll give you the money.
MAN 1:
This is Friday, Babu.
How many times I gotta tell you?
You keep on calling me Babu.
It's Singh, motherfucker.
I-I'm trying
to help you.
You keep on telling me
I'm your friend.
Yeah.
You don't even know
my fucking name.
MAN 1:
You want me
to catch a beatin'?
I'm gonna if I go back
again like last week.
See this guy?
You see this guy?
This guy don't want you
to have the money.
He wants to come back there
and squash your head.
And I don't wanna see that.
I have one customer
sitting here. What I'm gonna do?
MAN 1:
Business is bad?
You opened a store
in an Irish neighborhood.
These are dirty, dirty people.
Don't you know that?
Sell potatoes, I don't know
what you're gonna do.
Excuse me, gentlemen.
Know what I'm saying?
Excuse me. Sorry.
Hey, you fellas
come from Providence?
It isn't any of your business
where we come from, is it now?
What, are you fucking delivering
cannolis or something?
♪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no ♪
♪ No, no, no, no
No, no, no, no ♪
♪ No, no, no, no, no
No, no... ♪
Hey! You are killing
my business, man!
Ow! Fuck!
SINGH:
What's wrong
with this fucking country?
Everybody hates everybody!
Hey, don't!
[GRUNTING]
[SPEAKING IN PUNJABI]
Get out of here.
Get out of here!
[♪♪♪]
COLIN:
Now, you also do
probation work, right?
That's right,
I see violent offenders.
Oh, bad guys.
Not necessarily. Heh.
Oh.
Yeah, they got this,
but they don't got
duck l'orange.
Was your meal okay?
Yeah, no, no, no,
the lobster was good.
I just, you know,
'cause it was a French
restaurant I was surprised.
[CHUCKLES]
I'm waitin' for you
to make your move.
Look, I don't know,
if that thing moves,
I'm gonna shoot it.
I don't even know
what it is.
WOMAN [OVER PA]:
...you have a call on 3015.
Repeat, 3015.
COLIN:
So what's it like
having people
"find themselves"
in your office
all day long?
Does it get messy with all
those feelings flying around?
W-why? Does that
make you uncomfortable?
No, no, no, no.
No?
No, no, no.
No, I'm not on your couch.
[LAUGHING]
You know what Freud
said about the Irish?
Yeah, I do.
Yeah, if you actually do,
I'll see you again.
Who says I wanna
see you again?
Don't you?
[CHUCKLES]
You should see your face.
Don't you?
Course I wanna see you again.
What Freud said
about the Irish is:
We're the only people
who are impervious
to psychoanalysis.
Hmm. Yeah, he said that.
I know he did.
Hmm.
So you're up shit's creek
with a client list
full of mick cops.
I mean, opening up?
Good luck to you.
Yeah.
Why do you do it, then?
Mmm...
Some people do get better.
Fair enough.
Sometimes I just want
people to forget
about their personal bullshit
and do their jobs.
Including the criminals?
Well, if they don't do
their jobs, you don't have one.
Pfft.
I'll always have a job.
I'll just arrest
innocent people.
Wait. You are trouble.
Ah, you don't know
the half of it.
I'll arrest you right now.
[LAUGHS]
COLIN:
My word against yours.
WOMAN:
Then I see her dancing at
the wedding with you-know-who.
And the other one says to him,
"Why don't you go up
to Parents Without Partners?"
And he goes, "Ma, they're all
a bunch of losers
at the Parents
Without Partners," so...
So I say to him,
"Princess Carolina of Monaco..."
Schuyler.
[THE ROLLING STONES' "LET IT
LOOSE" PLAYING OVER SPEAKER]
Do you know who I am?
No.
[CLEARS THROAT]
You met my friend Mr. French
the other night.
His real name Mr. French?
No.
Come with me.
I'm not the cops.
Not asking ya.
You know something,
they just do not stop having
the Mafia in Providence.
And this can cause me
a lot of problems.
Those guys you tuned up,
they're connected
down Providence.
What they're gonna do
is come back with some guys
and kill you.
Which, sure as you're born,
they will do.
Unless I stop them.
Do you want me
to stop 'em?
Is this something
I can't do personally?
I'm gonna have
my associate search you.
Nah, no one's fucking
searching me.
Search me for what?
Contra-fucking-band.
Take your shoes off.
Fuck.
FRENCH:
Shoes.
I knew your father.
Yeah?
You know he's dead?
Oh, sorry. How'd he go?
Stand.
He didn't complain.
FRENCH: Legs.
Yeah, that was his problem.
Who said he had a problem?
[KEYS JINGLING]
I just said
he had a fucking problem.
There's a man
could've been anything.
Are you trying to say
that he was nothing?
Fuck.
I'm saying he worked
at the airport.
He's clean.
Arm.
Yeah, come on.
What arm? What fucking arm?
Show me your arm. Flip it.
Mm-hm. Mm-hm. Mm-hm.
Agh! Oh! Ah-ha-hah!
Fuck!
Makes me curious to see you
in this neighborhood.
He's clean.
And if I can slander
my own environment,
it makes me sad,
this, uh, regression.
Plus, I don't know
if it's beyond
some fucking cop prick
like Queenan
to pull you outta the staties
and send you after me.
I just can't know.
I don't know what they do
in that particular department,
anyway.
[SCREAMS]
Are you still a cop?
No! No! Agh!
Swear on your mother's grave
you're still not a cop?
I am not a fucking cop! Ow!
Are you gonna stop
doing coke deals
with your jerk-off
fucking cousin?
[PANTING]
Yes. Yes, yes!
All right, all right,
all right.
You're still okay.
You'll be all right.
Get your hand taken care of.
I'm sorry, but, uh,
it was necessary.
As for our problem
with Providence...
let's not cry
over spilled guineas.
Who let this IRA motherfucker
in my bar?
[CHUCKLES]
Just kidding.
How's your mother?
[IRISH ACCENT]
Ah, she's on her way out.
We all are.
Act accordingly.
Here it is, Your Highness,
as ordered.
Get in the car.
I wanna show you somethin'.
What's got you all hot
and bothered?
Get in the car.
You'll see.
Do you trust him?
FRENCH:
Well, these days, um...
Who's reliable?
His Uncle Jackie was.
Mmm.
Yeah,
but you can't trust a guy
acts like he's got nothing
to lose.
I'm reliable.
Arnold,
you're one in a million.
Ten. Ten million.
What about your wife, Arnold?
Well, I thought she was.
[LAUGHS]
She wasn't.
Well, she got reliable.
[GASPS]
GWEN:
Don't you people
ever shut the fuck up?
[BOTH SIGH]
Another county heard from.
One too many.
She got a big mouth.
Answer this for me, will ya?
[CELL PHONE VIBRATES]
[IN IRISH ACCENT]
♪ They love the dear silver
That shines in her hair ♪
♪ I love the dear fingers
So toilworn for me ♪
♪ God bless her and keep her
Mother Machree ♪
[JOHN LENNON'S "WELL WELL WELL"
PLAYING]
COLIN:
Ah. The principles
of detection
tell me that these two gentlemen
came from Providence.
Lieutenant Risteen,
Lynn P.D.
I'd appreciate it
you get outta my crime scene.
Yeah, actually,
it's my crime scene,
but knock yourself out.
Thanks.
[LINE RINGING]
I saw a dead guy.
I think I'm having
posttraumatic stress.
Can I meet you for lunch?
All right, see you then.
♪ Oh, well... ♪
Who's the lead detective?
Good. He's a lox.
♪ Well, well, well ♪
♪ Oh, well ♪
♪ Well, well, well... ♪
Get the cops to look
at Jimmy Pappas for the hit.
Course, he had nothing
to do with it.
He'll say so.
You look in his car,
you'll find the gun that did it.
Registered. Official.
Providence.
In the trunk
or the glove compartment?
Hey, you wanna see
some dead guys?
[MAN SHOUTING
IN GREEK]
MAN 2:
Calm down. Let's go.
It's all over.
Hey, this will get
Captain Ellerby
on the 6:00 news.
No wonder you get ahead.
♪ Well, well, well ♪
Have a seat, Bill.
♪ Well... ♪
Do you know John Lennon?
Yeah, sure, he was the president
before Lincoln.
Lennon said,
"I'm an artist.
"You give me a fucking tuba,
I'll get you something
out of it."
Well, I tell you,
Mr. Costello,
I'd like to squeeze
some fucking money out of it.
♪ Well... ♪
Smart-mouth.
Too bad.
If you'll indulge me...
[DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
Now what?
Choir practice.
Choir practice...
[DOOR CLOSES]
The point I'm making
with John Lennon is...
a man could look
at anything
and make something out of it.
For instance,
I look at you, and I think:
What could I use you for?
Yeah.
Get rid of this.
French.
COSTELLO:
Put it downstairs. Here.
Yeah, thank you.
Maybe we could
work something out.
Good.
And, uh, send this
to his wife.
FRENCH:
I thought it was nice
the way you asked
the guy which hand
he jerked off with.
I hope this don't shake Rita up.
As I remember,
she ain't that sentimental.
[COSTELLO LAUGHING]
[STATIC BUZZING]
That was quick.
You think he's dead already?
BILLY:
We have to do it by phone.
I won't do it
if I have to wear a wire.
No wires ever. You understand?
You don't know
what this is like.
QUEENAN:
Microprocessors.
Micro what?
We'll probably be at war
with the Chinese in 20-odd years
and Costello is selling them
military technology.
Microprocessors,
chips, computer parts.
Anybody says anything
about anything like that,
you let us know.
[♪♪♪]
So who did the two guys
from Providence?
Jimmy Pappas.
What happened to Jimmy Pappas?
Jimmy had a rough month. Uh...
Jimmy had a heart attack
in jail,
and, uh, then
he got himself knifed
at, uh, Boston City Hospital.
I believe
it's been in the papers.
You seem quite happy
with that result.
It's a fucking result.
Yeah, but cui bono?
Who benefits?
Cui gives a shit?
It's got a friggin' bow on it.
I think you are a cop, my son.
Where's your fucking license?!
What license?
I don't see no fucking license.
There's no such thing.
But you, you definitely need
to have fucking one.
If you're not being run by us,
you're being run
by someone else.
That means you're bringing
some undesirable elements
into Mr. Costello's area.
Ugh!
[MAN COUGHS]
I was going
for my fucking cigarettes!
Hey.
That's Jimmy Bags.
[JIMMY PANTING]
I-- He was rea--
I don't know.
What the fuck you doing?
MAN:
I'm in the hole,
I pay him 2 grand a week.
There's no profit, I pay him.
Then make more fucking money.
This is America.
You don't make money,
you're a douche bag.
Now what you gonna do?
Oh! Make more money.
That's the spirit!
Oh, fuck.
Don't worry about it.
The guy don't need
any fucking teeth anyway.
It's a small surveillance
subunit, but it's mine.
And I didn't take this job
to fuck it up
or let anyone else fuck it up.
I handpicked this group.
You're my A team.
Now, our prime--
Hi, captain.
This crazy fuck knocked
Jimmy Bags' teeth out.
So?
Look, he was reaching for his--
He was reaching
for his cigarettes.
You're gonna give me shit, huh?
It wasn't for no reason, Frank.
The man reached into his coat.
I don't know if he's a bookie
or what the fuck.
Well, you do know
what a bookie does, don't you?
Yeah. Yeah, he pays you.
COLIN:
Queenan's compartmentalizing
everything in SIU,
which is the right thing to do.
Personally, I don't trust half
the troopers out there anymore.
Bottom line...
We think we might
have a problem.
We think Costello's got
a rat in the state police.
Really?
Yeah, really.
Do we have direct access
to Queenan's undercovers?
[SIGHS]
No, no, not presently.
Uh, but I'm working on that.
Here, Bill, this is for you.
From now on, call the bar,
ask for Mikey. Just Mikey.
You ask for Mikey
because there is no Mikey.
You wait. We'll call you.
FRENCH: You got that?
Yeah, I got that.
FRENCH:
Sorry, I didn't hear you.
I got that.
Good.
[PATSY CLINE'S "SWEET DREAMS
(OF YOU)" PLAYING]
Hi, Dad.
I got promoted. All right.
[CAMERA CLICKING]
♪ And every night ♪
♪ You don't love me ♪
♪ It's plain ♪
[LAUGHS]
[SOFTLY]
Excuse me for one second.
♪ I should have loved you... ♪
You know...
if your father were alive
and saw you here
sitting with me,
let's say he'd have a word
with me about this.
In fact, he'd kill seven guys
just to cut my throat.
And he could do it,
which is maybe something
you don't know
about William Costigan, Sr.
So he never--?
I mean, never?
No. No, no.
He kept his own counsel.
He never wanted money.
Can't do anything
with a man like that.
[CHUCKLES]
Your Uncle Jackie...
He also would kill
my entire fucking family
if he saw me here with you.
And I think about this.
So what the fuck
are we talking about here?
Did you ever think about
going back to school?
School?
[CHUCKLES]
With all due respect,
Mr. Costello, tsk,
school is out.
Mm-hm.
Maybe someday
you'll wake the fuck up.
["SAIL ON, SAILOR" PLAYING]
Good day, Fathers.
Mr. Costello.
OLD PRIEST:
Good morning, Francis,
good morning.
You recall our chat?
Little boys,
sucking on their peckers,
etcetera,
so forth...
"I am as God made me."
Was that your rationale?
♪ Sail on, sail on... ♪
May I remind you,
in this archdiocese,
God don't run the bingo.
YOUNG PRIEST:
May I remind you
that pride comes
before the fall.
How's Sister
Mary Theresa doing?
We had a tasty relationship
before she took her vows.
Enjoy your clams,
cocksuckers.
Pay 'em.
♪ Sail on, sail on... ♪
COSTELLO:
Get the old bombardier
a drink on the house.
♪ Sail on, sail on
Sailor ♪
What do you got for me?
BROWN: Uniform clipped him
for a suspended license.
However, as he's a subject
of an open investigation--
More than one. Yeah.
He's one of Costello's.
Yeah, we're getting
a warrant.
We can't get an address
off of him.
He paged his lawyer,
but the lawyer
hasn't called back yet.
Who's the lawyer?
He didn't know the name.
Just had a number on a card.
Beeper number.
And the guy didn't show up?
No.
COLIN:
He beeped him?
Twice.
Give me your phone.
Turn that off.
What?
Turn the fucking camera off.
Give it to me.
He doesn't know what the fucking
lawyer looks like.
Whose briefcase is this?
All right. It's off?
You're good.
Afternoon,
Mr. Fitzgibbons.
He can't do that.
He just did.
You my attorney?
What do you think?
Now, have you made
any statements or phone calls
I need to be made aware of?
I beeped you.
The card they gave me.
That's it.
That's it?
I think you need
to call your mother,
tell her you're not
gonna be home for supper.
Camera's off.
It's off. Call your mother.
Lookit, they're suiting up
for a raid right now.
I don't know
where they're going,
but they do.
And so do you.
So make the call.
Lookit, fuckstick,
you don't gotta trust me...
just listen
to what I'm saying to you.
[KEYS BEEPING]
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
Mom, I'm not gonna
make it home for supper.
Sorry, yeah, I got held up.
Yeah, no, you carry on
without me.
I'll-- I'll talk
to you later. Okay.
Bye.
Everybody out. Move.
Thank you.
So who are you?
You know, I think you need
a different attorney after all,
Mr. Fitzgibbons--
Have a great day.
So when the fuck
am I gonna get out?
All right, run the last number
he called. That's his house.
Now, whatever the address is,
I'll swear to the judge
I surveilled him there,
and abra-fucking-cadabra,
we got a warrant.
Why did you use my phone?
'Cause you didn't go
in there.
[♪♪♪]
[MAN GRUNTING]
The light's nice here
in the morning.
So do you want to talk
about last night?
You know, it's all right.
Guys tend to make
too big a deal out of it.
It's actually quite common.
I gotta go to work.
Do you lie?
Why?
Do you?
No, I'm asking if you lie.
Honesty is not synonymous
with truth.
Yeah, you lie.
[LAUGHS]
You lie.
Is it to do some good,
to get somewhere personally,
or what,
just for the fuck of it?
Well, I expect that
some people do it
to keep things on
an even keel.
Wow.
So you had a parent
who was a drunk.
Did you?
No.
Let's keep it with you.
Talk about how you feel.
BILLY:
How I feel.
[♪♪♪]
[TOY PLAYING MUSIC]
Fuck!
Brian, stop it.
[PANTING]
No...
Please...
Ain't gonna hurt ya.
[GUNSHOT]
[COUGHS]
BILLY:
You sit there...
with a mass murderer.
A mass murderer.
Your heart rate is jacked.
Your hand...
steady.
That's one thing
I figured out
about myself in prison--
My hand...
does not shake.
Ever.
[BOTTLE DROPS TO FLOOR]
[PANTING]
Wake the fuck up.
[GUN DROPS ON FLOOR]
There was a cop leaving
when I came in.
How did you know
he was a cop?
You know, bad haircut,
no dress sense and a slight,
you know, air of
scumbag entitlement.
Do you see cops?
As part of what I do.
I mean, I normally
don't see cadets
who've been kicked out
of the academy.
Oh, boy.
You should get
a better job, huh?
Should I?
[CLEARS THROAT]
So do they all, uh--
They all come in here
and...cry? Your cops?
Sometimes they do.
Yeah?
Yeah, sure.
Sometimes they cry, yeah.
If they've had trouble at home.
If they've had
to use their weapons.
Use their weapons?
[LAUGHS]
Let me tell you
somethin'.
They signed up
to use their weapons,
most of them, all right,
but they watch
enough TV so they know
they have to weep
after they use their weapons.
There is no one more
full of shit than a cop.
Except for a cop on TV.
MADOLYN:
I looked at your file, and...
I see that you have--
You have a record of assault.
Yeah.
So, what--? What was it
like for you in jail?
What, you don't--?
You don't...?
You want to hear about
the showers,
is that what you want
to hear about?
Did something happen to you?
No.
Okay, kid,
let's do this.
Come on, spread 'em.
Hey! What, you think
you can pop somebody,
and there's
a special card to play?
That guy Jimmy Bags,
whose jaw you broke,
works undercover for
the Boston Police Department.
I'm going fuckin' nuts, man.
I can't be someone else
every day!
It's been a year.
I've had enough of this shit.
Calm down, all right?
Most people in the world
do it every day.
What's the big deal?
Well, I'm not them, all right?
I'm not fuckin' them, okay?
Exactly. You're nobody.
You signed the papers,
remember?
Now, we're the only two people
on the face of this earth
that even know you're a cop.
How 'bout we just erase your
file? Huh? How 'bout that?
How 'bout we erase
your file,
and then bang, you're just
another soldier for Costello,
open to arrest for I don't know
how many felonies, huh?
What do you say
we do that, cap?
How 'bout I fuckin' kill you,
huh?!
How 'bout I fuckin' kill you!
Hey, hey, hey...
That was a joke.
Come on.
Wasn't a joke--
'Cause you play a tough guy
doesn't mean you are one,
you lace-curtain, Irish pussy!
Hey! Hey!
Stop it! Break it up!
Stop it!
Fuck you, motherfucker!
Goddamn it, stop it!
That's an order!
For Christ's sake,
be smart.
If anybody's watching us now,
how are we not supposed
to arrest you?
Come on, get in the car.
Both of you,
get in the car!
When you gonna
take Costello, huh?
I mean, what's wrong
with taking him
on any one of the
million fucking felonies
that you've seen him do
or I've seen him do?!
I mean-- I mean,
he murdered somebody, right?
The guy fucking murders somebody
and you don't fucking take him!
What are you waiting for?
Honestly, I mean,
do you want him to chop me up
and feed me to the poor?
Is that what you guys want?
Yeah, well, that might stick.
Will you shut up.
We are building a case,
and it takes time.
You know that.
[SIGHS]
Something's wrong. I'm...
I'm telling you,
something's wrong.
Yeah, maybe.
Look, we need you to keep
your ears open, all right?
No bullshit.
We think Costello's got a spy
inside the
Special Investigation Unit.
[SIGHS]
Are you--? You serious?
I'm afraid so.
[SCOFFS]
Have you heard
anything like that?
Aw, Jesus Christ.
[SIGHS]
Hang tight for me, kid.
Just a little while longer.
We are this close.
All right?
MADOLYN:
What do you expect,
coming in here?
I have to come here.
I know you have
to come here,
but now that you're here...
what do you want?
You want the truth?
Valium.
Oh. You know, if you lied,
you would have an easier time
getting what you wanted.
What's that say about
what you do for a living?
We need more meetings before
we talk about prescriptions.
I'm having panic attacks,
all right?
The other night, I thought I was
having a fucking heart attack.
I puked in a trash barrel
on the way over here.
I haven't slept
for fucking weeks.
Is that true?
Yeah, that's true, all right?
I said something fuckin' true.
I want some fuckin' pills,
and you're gonna, what?
You're gonna close my file?
Is that what you're gonna do?
I didn't mean to close it.
I thought I was supposed
to tell the truth here,
if only fucking here!
You are! Yes, okay...
Christ, I mean a guy comes in
here against ev-- Every instinct
of-- Of privacy, of
self-reliance that he has,
and what do you do?
What do you do, huh?
You send him off on
the street to score smack?
Is that what you do?
You're fuckin' ridiculous.
Two pills?
Great. Why don't you just give
me a bottle of Scotch
and a handgun to blow
my fuckin' head off.
Are we done here with this
psychiatry bullshit--?
You know what? You can leave!
What the fuck did
I just put myself through?
I'm fuckin' out of here.
And what if that was
a legitimate threat?
Think about it, fuckin' hotshot.
[DOOR SLAMS]
Fuck.
[EXHALES]
Why is the last patient of
the day always the hardest one?
It's 'cause you're tired
and you don't give a shit.
It's not supernatural.
Listen... Listen.
You know,
I'm not just somebody
that you have to see,
or they put you in jail.
Okay? I mean, if you're
in distress, I will help you.
What's this?
[SIGHS]
It's my card
and a prescription
for 20 lorazepam.
Yeah?
Mm.
Is it enough
to commit suicide?
Maybe it is.
All right? Okay?
Have I done my job up
to your goddamn standards?
Because according
to my standards,
you fit the model
of drug-seeking behavior.
You know, and too damn bad
if you don't like
my initial
clinical reaction.
Thank you.
I'm transferring you
to another counselor.
Good.
Okay.
So you want to get
a cup of coffee?
ELLERBY:
Bring it in here, please.
Would somebody bring it in?
Come on in.
Our target is a major
transaction of microprocessors.
Yes, those.
I don't know what they are,
you don't know what they are.
Who gives a fuck? Cash.
Lots of cash are gonna
change hands inside a building
that we have under AV
surveillance close-by.
I know this off-site location
is not the best, but we've had
very little time to set up.
Did you guys know
anything about this?
No.
ELLERBY:
Staff Sergeant Sullivan's team
will ID the bad guys
and listen in on the phones.
Our unit will not take action.
I repeat, not take action,
until a man
that Captain Queenan has
inside their operation
verifies the transaction.
Are we clear?
Anybody?
Any questions? No?
This is who we're after.
We've been after this
cocksucker for a long time,
and tonight,
we are going to get him.
Let's go to work.
You guys find out
what we're doing and get on it.
Hey.
I'm sorry
to get you at the last minute,
but things leak.
This lead came from
Queenan's undercover guy.
I'm gonna have a smoke.
Don't smoke, do you?
Are you one of those fitness
freaks? Go fuck yourself.
[LINE RINGING]
Hi, Dad?
Yes.
Uh, yeah...
Something big
came up at work.
I'm not gonna be home
for supper.
Too bad.
Your mother worked
all goddamn day.
We'll just have
to sit down without you
and your friends.
Oh, no.
My friends are still coming.
So we'll just, uh...
I'll see you for lunch
instead tomorrow.
Your mother will be proud.
All right, thanks, Pop. Bye.
The readiness is all.
You know the players.
Call the game.
Thank you.
You ready?
Is Your Highness gonna
drop me off at confession
before work,
or fuck me or what?
What have you got to confess
to that anointed pederast?
A confessional seal,
these days...
I'm not so sure.
[♪♪♪]
MAN:
Piece of cake.
He'll operate the cameras.
You ID the guys and log 'em.
All cell phone signals
are under surveillance,
through the courtesy of
our federal friends over there.
Patriot Act. Patriot Act!
I love it, I love it,
I love it!
Keep an eye on this one.
All right. Here we go.
There's Costello,
Mr. French.
There's Fitzy, Delahunt
and the new guy,
Billy Costigan.
Time is...10:46.
COSTELLO:
All right,
turn off your cell phones.
Fitzy's got
the chicken.
Check your weapons.
We have a blind spot.
Why do we have
a blind spot?
We had two hours' notice.
Two hours.
What the fuck you
think this is, NASA?
It never crossed
my mind.
Have you got a camera
in the back?
What back?
[SCOFFS]
[COSTELLO CHUCKLES]
How ya going, Robert?
Good, Mr. Costello.
I want to tell you,
at least two of these
gents have machine guns.
[MAN SPEAKING
IN CHINESE]
He's from the Chinese
government.
I mean,
he's scared shitless.
COSTELLO:
Government man.
Scared.
I'm concerned
about a Chinaman
who thinks it's wise
to come
to a business transaction
with automatic weapons.
[ROBERT TRANSLATING
IN CHINESE]
[CLICKS]
Yap, yap, yap.
COSTELLO:
For his own good,
tell Bruce Lee
and the karate kids
none of us are carrying
automatic weapons.
Because here, in this country,
it don't add inches
to your dick,
you get a life sentence
for it.
[TRANSLATING
IN CHINESE]
[BEEPS]
[SPEAKS IN CHINESE]
Yeah, maybe if we had some
of that Homeland Security money,
like some other fucking
douche bags I could mention.
Any calls?
They turned off
their cell phones.
Search randomly for calls
made from the area.
Eight hundred and seven phones
are live in this area.
ELLERBY:
Then narrow the area.
LAZIO:
What you see there for service
is what you're gonna get.
Yeah, why the fuck did
they turn their phones off?
Wait. There's still
one phone up.
Where?
[CELL PHONE VIBRATING]
The buyers are there.
You know, direct contact
with your guys
would have its advantages.
Not to my guy.
DIGNAM:
This is unbelievable.
Who put the fucking cameras
in this place?
Oh, who the fuck are you?
I'm the guy who does his job.
You must be the other guy.
[SPEAKS IN CHINESE]
If these Chinks want to nuke
Taiwan any time in this century,
they better shape up
and show me 1 million dollars.
[TRANSLATING
IN CHINESE]
What we generally do--
In this country!
--is one guy
brings the items,
and the other guy...pays him.
No "tickee," no laundry.
[SPEAKS IN CHINESE]
COSTELLO:
Go ahead, Fitz.
[SPEAKING IN CHINESE]
ELLERBY:
Cars are moving,
but did you see
anybody come out?
Please tell me
those cars aren't empty.
I mean, Jesus fucking Christ,
please tell me that those
Chinamen's cars aren't empty!
They didn't figure
we had a navy.
Did you put a camera
in the back?
Can I talk to you
for a second, please?
You stupid fucking hard-on!
COLIN:
Hey, oh, oh, oh!
ELLERBY:
You fucked this whole thing up!
What the fuck did you do,
you cocksucker?!
Let go of me!
I'm gonna rip your fucking
arm off and shove it up your
fucking ass, you hear me?!
DIGNAM:
Why don't we just meet up?
Let me buy you an ice cream.
BILLY:
I'm getting on a plane
unless you put Queenan on.
Queenan had a funeral to go to.
This is my shift. Calm down.
BILLY:
Why shouldn't I get
on a fucking plane, huh?
"Meet up?"
You actually want me dead?
Look, there is a rat
in your unit.
That is a fact, all right?!
Where's Queenan?
He's not here.
They knew
you had cameras inside.
They knew everything, all right?
There is a leak from the inside.
It's real, man. Smoke him out.
Yeah, how do we do that,
Mr. Fucking-Genius-
Who-Didn't-Even-Graduate-
From-the-Academy?
Disinform, all right? Let it
slip through SIU that you have
a sealed wiretap warrant
for Costello's apartment.
Don't tell anyone
in our division, but tell SIU.
Flush it down the pipe,
and see if it comes out
on my end, all right?
That's what we do first.
We narrow it down.
Where the fuck is Queenan, huh?
He's not here, all right?
You want to meet up or you got
something real, call me back.
...changing your life
radically.
Change anything, right?
Change everything.
Right?
Yeah.
Ahem. How long you been
with this guy?
My boyfriend?
Yeah.
About...
Oh, maybe four months.
Four months.
Almost four months.
Do you love him?
It's a pretty serious
relationship, yeah.
Hmm.
It's very serious.
Is he a head case like me,
or...I'm just curious.
Well, no more than I am.
I know that it's
a serious relationship.
I know there are ups
and downs, right?
People have doubts
and problems and...
Well, not problems,
but...doubts.
What would you do
if he was standing right there
and he saw us, huh?
I would lie.
Yeah, I would lie.
You know...
keep things
on an even keel, right?
Right?
We talked about that.
Yeah.
[THE ROLLING STONES'
"GIMME SHELTER" PLAYING]
Morning.
Good morning.
Want a French donut?
Yeah.
Hey, can I look at...?
Sure.
All right, we're not
having this out.
What?
Hey, you don't see any pictures
of where I came from.
Look, I respect
who you are,
just, you know,
not in the living room.
We might have company.
Company?
Yeah, company.
Hey, now why do you work
for the state?
Why not? You do.
No, what you do,
the degrees and all,
everything you got,
you're hot shit.
Yeah?
So why do you make as much
as a guidance counselor?
Because I believe
in public service.
[PHONE RINGING]
So now you're gonna fuck
with me?
[LAUGHING]
So now you're going
to be ridiculous, huh?
Huh? No, don't start
with me.
Hey!
Ah, fuck with the fucking phone!
Stop it!
The phone...
Forget the phone.
No, get it.
Answer it. Answer it.
This is-- This is your first
phone call in the new house.
You live here now.
You're a resident.
Mayor Sullivan's office.
COSTELLO [DISTORTED]:
Put Colin on the phone
right now.
Oh, my God. I'm sorry.
What?
I think it's a guy
with, uh...
It's like a can--
A cancer guy.
Hello.
What the fuck is it
with you and your phone,
huh?
Um....something for work.
Hey, um...nothing, nothing,
nothing. It went dead.
I don't know. I gu--
Was that that shrink cunt
that answered the phone?
Remember I told you
that, you know,
we were gonna--
She was gonna move in.
Yeah.
She moved in.
You better get organized, quick.
Hey, last time I checked,
I tipped you off,
and you're not in jail.
Are you listening to me?
Yeah.
Do you like Little Miss Thing
sucking on your cock?
Yes. Yes, I do.
So earn it.
I'm getting the feeling...
we got a cop in my crew.
Yeah, I know. I'm kind
of getting that feeling too.
He's one of yours. Inside.
You seen anything?
Frank, I got no access
to Queenan's undercover
files.
He and Dignam run
the snitches.
I'm doing my best, Frank--
Your best?
What do you think, we're in the
fucking haberdashery business?
All right, look, Frank,
if you don't relax--
If you don't relax,
I can't relax, all right?
Now what I need you to do,
you get me information
on the people
who were with you
last night, your crew.
Get me Social Security numbers,
full names--
Get you? Give you?
Who the fuck do you work for?
All right, all right, all right.
Frank. Frank. Frank.
What? What?
I'm sorry. I didn't--
If you could please--
I need SS numbers, DOB's,
just all the pedigree
information, so I can run it
on my end,
and we can ID the prick.
If you can get me that,
I can just run--
We're gonna handle it.
I can handle it.
Collie, calm down
or you'll shoot in your pants.
I'll get you the records
and whatnot,
but listen to me, son.
Don't disappoint me
on this,
or some other guy will be
putting their fat cock
up Little Miss Freud's ass.
[PHONE BEEPS]
[GIRLS SINGING]
QUEENAN:
How are you, Francis?
My mother called me Francis.
I know she did.
And your father
called you the tumor.
And what did your father
call you, Charlie?
Oh, yeah, I forgot.
He wasn't around.
You have a boss
that has a laryngectomy?
No, no, no, no.
That was a guy
who works for me.
You're lying to me.
[SIGHS]
Not exactly.
What did you do with the real
microprocessors, Frank?
Microprocessors.
Oh, yeah.
I heard the story.
You arrested some Chinese
government guys at the border
carrying some light sockets
or somethin'.
[CHUCKLING]
I can't wait to wipe
that fucking smirk
right off of your face.
Wouldn't you rather
wipe my ass for me?
Look, there are
certain parts of my job
that I'm not gonna be able
to talk to you about.
And I cannot allow you
to jeopardize
an ongoing investigation.
[LAUGHS]
Or your life.
No, really,
there are things...
you don't even want
to know about.
Okay, then just say that.
All right, I will.
[DOORBELL CHIMES]
Oh, that's the movers.
Yeah, you still want to stay?
Yes.
Yeah?
[DOORBELL CHIMING]
Come on! I'm coming!
That's the worst timing.
I'm gonna get you.
If you coulda,
you woulda.
But I guess you like to go
at your own pace.
Excuse me.
Got a date with some angels.
[CHUCKLES]
[SINGING CONTINUES]
MAN [ON TV]:
Frankie! Frankie!
[FIRECRACKER POPS]
Your mother forgives me.
[♪♪♪]
[GLASS SHATTERING]
You take off an armored car
at the Dedham Mall.
What the fuck do you do,
you pay guineas in Providence?
Fucking now I do!
What the fuck do you do?!
What?
I gotta pay Costello and wait
for him to trade me to the FBI?
That's what he does!
FBI? Wha--? What the fuck
you talking about, FBI?
[FIRECRACKER POPS]
[FUSE HISSES]
Oh, my God,
is that French out there?
What the fuck did you just
say about the FBI, huh?
Forget what I said.
I'm high.
Whatever may be going on
in that very fucking poor,
very limited brain of yours,
I am not gonna hurt you,
all right?
Just tell me what
you just fucking said.
Forget it. I'm high.
I'm high.
I must be high.
I would never say
what you thought I said.
Oh! Fuck!
Now, what the fuck
did you just fucking say?!
Why do you think
he never gets busted?
Costello's a protected
FBI informant!
He'll trade you out!
I thought I was supposed
to go into shock.
I'm not in shock.
It fucking hurts!
[FIRECRACKER POPS]
♪ Dixie, when I let you go ♪
BILLY [WHISPERING]:
Hey. It's me.
What're you doing here?
Come here.
Costello's giving people
up to the FBI.
The FBI?
He is giving information
to the FBI.
He's a protected
fucking informant.
I mean, aren't they
always trying to make it
a federal case
and it never gets made?
Go around the back.
I'll open the door.
Go on.
Here's some ice water.
Oh, thanks, thanks.
[CLEARS THROAT]
That's my son Patrick.
Goes to Notre Dame.
Oh, yeah?
My wife's asleep,
but she left
some supper out.
You want something to eat?
Oh...no, thanks.
Yeah, come on,
you have some supper.
We'll talk in the kitchen.
Come on.
[SNIFFS]
[OPERA BEING PERFORMED LIVE]
[INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE]
[OPERA CONTINUES]
COSTELLO:
Want some coke?
There it is.
Don't move
till you're numb.
[PILLS RATTLING]
[COCKS]
Come on, get inside.
Boss wants your real name.
Your social and license number,
your bank account numbers.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
I don't have a bank account.
I'm a cash
business myself.
What's he doing,
setting up IRAs?
Just fill the fucking paper in.
Your real name
and all your account numbers.
Then we wait here.
[THUNDER RUMBLES]
You're shittin' me.
No, I ain't.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
[ROGER WATERS'
"COMFORTABLY NUMB" PLAYING]
♪ Hello ♪
♪ Is there anybody in there? ♪
Put the forms
in there.
♪ Just nod if you can hear me ♪
I don't know if this is
how you spell "citizens,"
but-- But fuck it, you know?
No, no, no, no, no.
Come here.
♪ I hear you're feeling down ♪
What, are you fuckin'
retarded or something?
That ain't fuckin' right.
[SCOFFS]
Are you kidding me?
Look at this. Look.
"Citizens." Look.
Billy, he said to stay here.
I'm not sitting here
without a tetanus shot.
Where the fuck you going?
I'm not staying, all right?
You can tell him I said that.
♪ There is no pain ♪
♪ You are receding ♪
[DOORBELL BUZZES]
♪ The distant ships ♪
♪ Smoke on the horizon ♪
♪ You are only... ♪
Hey.
Hi.
Pouring out there.
Yeah.
♪ Your lips move ♪
♪ But I can't hear
What you're saying... ♪
[EXHALES]
Look, if... Ahem.
If this is inappropriate, I--
No, no,
it's not inappropriate,
you're not a patient.
♪ My hands felt... ♪
So, uh, you moving out
or you moving in?
I've still got three weeks
left on the lease.
♪ Now I've got that feeling
Once again ♪
♪ I can't explain
You would not understand ♪
That's me.
♪ This is not how I am ♪
Yeah, I know.
[KETTLE WHISTLING]
Hedging your bets?
No. No.
You have to choose.
No, you have to make a...
A decision.
A decision and--
Right.
And, you know, you have
to stick by what you choose,
you have to...
Move in with
your boyfriend?
Yes, otherwise, it's--
It's...
[THUNDER RUMBLES]
Oh, I know, I know.
I know.
I have to say
your vulnerability is...
really freaking me out
right now.
[EXHALES]
[CHUCKLES]
Is it real?
I think so.
You don't have any cats.
No.
[THUNDER RUMBLES]
I like that.
["COMFORTABLY NUMB" RESUMES]
♪ A distant ship
Smoke on the horizon ♪
♪ You are only coming through
In waves ♪
♪ Your lips move ♪
♪ But I can't hear
What you're saying ♪
♪ When I was a child ♪
♪ I caught a fleeting glimpse ♪
♪ Out of the corner of my eye ♪
♪ I turned to look
But it was gone ♪
♪ I cannot put my finger
On it now ♪
♪ The child is grown
The dream is gone ♪
♪ And I... ♪
♪ Have become ♪
♪ Comfortably numb ♪
[GROANS]
I don't get it.
Well...
we are all convinced
that Costello has at least
one mole inside the Special
Investigations Unit.
Right.
You will investigate
everybody and...
anybody.
Well, that's...
not exactly a dream job
for a cop.
We looked
at all possible candidates--
You have an immaculate record.
Some people don't trust a guy
with an immaculate record.
I do.
I have an immaculate record.
How's your wedding coming?
Great. Great.
She's a doctor.
Oh, that's outstanding.
Yeah.
Marriage is an important part
of getting ahead.
Lets people know
you're not a homo.
Married guy seems
more stable.
People see the ring,
they think
at least somebody can stand
the son of a bitch.
Ladies see the ring,
they know
you must have cash
and your cock must work.
[LAUGHS]
Yeah, it's working.
Overtime.
I'm glad to hear that.
Thank you.
[♪♪♪]
[ENGINE STARTS]
[WOMAN MOANS]
WOMAN:
Yeah.
Yeah!
[WOMAN LAUGHS]
[MAN MOANING]
MAN [WHISPERS]:
Be dirty, be dirty...
[MAN PANTING]
[WOMEN GASPING]
[MAN MOANING]
[MAN GRUNTING]
[YELLING]
[GRUNTING]
You fuckin'...
What the fuck is wrong
with you?
[LAUGHS]
See anything you like, Colin?
I almost fuckin' shot you.
COSTELLO:
Not abusing yourself,
are you?
Sit down.
I hope you're not
turning into one
of them sob sisters
who wants to get caught.
You're not cracking up,
are ya?
I don't crack up.
Pick a place like this
where any cop
could see you.
Jesus.
If this is such
a fuckin' bad idea,
why'd you show up?
I own the place.
[LAUGHS]
Why am I not
fuckin' surprised?
[COSTELLO
AND COLIN LAUGHING]
[WOMEN MOANING]
You're getting reassigned.
How the fuck
do you know that?
Where'd they put you?
Hey, Frank,
I gotta find myself.
You're telling me,
sonny boy.
I gotta find the guy
you got in the department.
With everybody looking
up their own ass
and you looking for yourself,
I put my money
on nobody finds nothing.
I know, but, Frank, look,
Mm-hmm?
for me...
you gotta lay low.
Right now.
Collie,
laying low is not what I do.
Fucking Big Daddy Frank.
Fucking perfect.
What good am I to you
if you don't listen to me?
[WOMEN LAUGHING]
[CELL PHONE VIBRATING]
COLIN:
Queenan is compartmentalizing,
splitting
everything up.
He's fucking smart.
You know this.
I can get the rat.
You just gotta let me
do it my way, Frank.
Okay.
COSTELLO:
But, Colin,
I hope I won't have
to remind you
that if you don't find
that cheese-eating rat bastard
in your department,
most likely,
it won't be me
who suffers for it.
Now, why would you have
to remind me of that?
Would I--? Would I be
any good at what I do
if I didn't fucking
already know that?
Frank, you got
to trust me.
All right? Just--
Just trust me, Frank.
Hey, it fucking
involves lying,
and I'm pretty fucking
good at that, right?
Right?
Maybe because
it's always been so easy
for me to get cunt
that I never understood
jerking off in a theater.
WOMAN [OVER SPEAKERS]:
Oh, yeah. Keep doing that.
Christ.
Who knows
what's easy?
Colin...
I know you'll take care
of business.
[WOMAN MOANING]
[♪♪♪]
[CAR HORN HONKING]
Shit!
[CAR HORNS HONKING]
[CHIMES TINKLING]
[STEAM HISSING]
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
[WHISPERS]
Fuck.
[DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
[DOOR CLOSES]
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
[GRUNTING]
[MEN SHOUTING
IN CHINESE]
[BEEPING]
[COMPUTER MOUSE CLICKING]
[KEYBOARD CLICKING]
Hey, how you doing?
Hi, Darlene. Hi.
That's it for me.
DARLENE: Yeah, see ya.
Have a good one.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
[PATSY CLINE'S "SWEET DREAMS"
PLAYING]
♪ Sweet dreams of you ♪
[CLEARS THROAT]
[SNIFFING]
Smell a rat.
[SWISHING]
Jesus Christ.
You got a girlfriend?
No.
No, no, why--? Why?
W-what does that matter?
Depends.
I'm sure, by now,
you know...
I got an informer
in my outfit.
Cop...
Staties,
Boston Police Department,
I'm not, uh, sure.
Jesus Christ.
Y-you sure it's not the FBI?
No...
It ain't the FBI.
Ex-wife.
Old girlfriend?
They're stupid.
That is what brings you
down in this business.
Stupid, huh?
Well, I guess
that leaves me out.
[LAUGHING]
You know, past days,
situation like this,
I'd...
kill everybody.
Everybody who works
for me.
Right.
You know,
Frank, I, uh,
I look around
at your other guys--
I mean,
they're all murderers, right?
Right?
And I think,
could I do murder?
And all I can
answer myself is...
what's the difference?
Give 'em up
to the Almighty.
You see, that's my point,
you know.
You...
You accuse me once,
I put up with it.
You accuse me twice...
I quit.
Hmm.
You pressure me
to fear for my life,
and I will put a fucking bullet
in your head as if you were
anybody else, okay?
[THUD ON FLOOR]
[COCKS]
You got something
you want to ask me?
Look...
you're 70 years old, Frank.
I'm just saying, okay?
One of your guys
is gonna pop you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
As for drugs,
what the fuck are you doing?
What are you doing?
You don't need the money
or the pain in the ass.
And they will catch you.
I haven't needed
the money
since I took
Archie's milk money
in the third grade.
Tell you the truth, I don't
need pussy anymore, either.
But I like it.
[BLOWS]
Point I'm making here...
is, Bill,
I got this rat--
This...gnawing,
cheese-eating,
fucking rat--
And it brings
up questions.
You know, say,
Bill, like,
you're the new guy.
Girlfriend, mm-hm.
Now, why don't you stay
in the bar
that night
I got your numbers?
Social-security numbers.
Yeah.
Everybody's fucking numbers.
Is--? Is there something
that you just want
to go ahead and ask me,
'cause I'll give you
the fucking answer, all right?
Frank, look at me.
Look at me.
I'm not the fucking rat. Okay?
I'm not the fucking rat.
Start with,
you agree there is a rat.
You said there is one,
all right?
I base most of what I do
on the idea
that you're pretty fucking good
at what you do.
Sure. Sure.
You, William...
what would you do?
Frank, how many of these guys
have been with you
long enough
to be disgruntled, huh?
Think about it.
You don't pay much,
you know.
It's almost a fucking
feudal enterprise.
The question is--
And this is the only question.
--who thinks that
they can do what you do
better than you?
The only one who could do
what I do is me.
A lot of people had to die
for me to be me.
You want to be me?
I probably could be you, yeah.
Yeah, I know that much.
But I don't want
to be you, Frank.
I don't want to be you.
Heavy lies the crown...
sort of thing.
Yeah.
FRENCH:
Francis.
I'm out of here.
You set the alarm--
COSTELLO:
Yeah, all right!
I'll see you
at Christmas.
MAN:
All right, good night.
[INSECT BUZZING]
[LOUD SLAM]
Know what I like
about restaurants?
The fucking food?
I don't know. What?
You learn a lot
watching things eat.
[SMACKING]
There's a boat
coming up Gloucester.
French will give you
all the details.
Eat something,
for Christ's sake.
[SNORTS]
In the future,
I tell ya to do a thing,
you fucking do it,
you got that?
I got it, okay?
[SNIFFING]
Excuse me, uh, French,
I forgot my...
Okay, Francis.
...cigarette.
COSTELLO:
Eat something.
[PHONE RINGING]
Problem?
Yeah, I got a problem.
I run rat fucks like you,
okay? I don't like 'em.
The day you wouldn't take
a promotion, let me know.
If you'd taken care of this,
I wouldn't be here.
Fuck yourself,
you piece of shit.
I need the names
of your undercovers.
Blow me.
Not literally.
There's no promotion involved.
[MUTTERING]
Fucking prick.
Hi, captain.
Look who's here.
The prom queen.
They are not happy with me.
What do you expect?
Everybody knows
you've been assigned here
to find Costello's rat.
They want to find the leak
as much as you do.
Like I said, two days ago,
my guy damn near found out
who Costello's rat is.
Lost him in the streets.
Really?
Well, did he get
a look at the guy?
Nah.
I mean, nothing? Like...
I mean, anything
that could help us?
No.
So you got any advice for me?
Just-- I mean, generally.
Costello can't do much business
without coordinating
with his source,
who is here in SIU.
Follow Costello,
you'll find his rat.
[♪♪♪]
QUEENAN:
You're gonna be looking
at my people.
Going through
their bank statements,
their phone calls,
their medical records.
Don't be surprised
if they don't buy you a beer
or invite you
into their homes.
Let me get you a coffee.
[PRINTER PRINTING]
COLIN:
If I wasn't with
the Massachusetts
State Police...
If I did it full-time--
Law school.
--I'd be through it in a year.
If I wasn't a trooper.
But another city,
I was thinking that.
Another city.
Another city, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, that would be
a clean slate.
COLIN:
I want you to know,
you-- You don't got to stay.
If we're not
gonna make it,
it's gotta be you
that gets out.
'Cause I'm not capable.
I'm fucking Irish.
I'll deal with something
being wrong
for the rest of my life.
[SIGHS]
MADOLYN:
That might not be
a bad idea, you know--
Another city.
[♪♪♪]
[KEYBOARD CLICKING]
[COMPUTER BEEPS]
Huh?
Of course I know
how to spot a cop.
How's that?
If he's not paying
attention to us,
he's a cop.
Lookit, you see
that guy over there?
FITZY: No.
Right over there.
FITZY:
Yeah.
Not paying attention
to us.
He's a cop.
FITZY:
Okay.
You get it now,
do you?
[CHUCKLING]
[KEYBOARD CLICKING]
What about this guy?
A cop.
[KEYBOARD CLICKING]
Hey, how you doing?
What kind of dog is that?
[CHUCKLES]
She ignored us,
so she must be a cop.
She's probably the fucking
police commissioner.
[LAUGHING]
She's probably the fucking...
[LaVERN BAKER'S "TWEEDLE DEE"
PLAYING OVER SPEAKER]
♪ Tweedle dee
Tweedle dee ♪
♪ Tweedle, tweedle
You can get out of here.
♪ Tweedle dee ♪
I'm using a new crew
tonight, new guys.
♪ I'm just happy as can be ♪
I thought I was on for this.
No, I changed my mind.
♪ Jiminy Cricket ♪
Take the night off.
♪ Jiminy Jack ♪
Francis.
♪ You make my heart go
Clickity clack ♪
♪ Tweedle... ♪
Jimmy.
We're out the back.
Bring a mop.
Yes, sir.
There's guys who answer
the questions right
and there's guys that don't.
COSTELLO: And a pail.
♪ Tweedle, Tweedle ♪
♪ Tweedle dot ♪
You're a cop.
What?
You ignored us.
You're a cop.
[LAUGHS]
We're guessing
who cops are.
You know, most good-looking
women are cops.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
Well, I'm going home,
all right?
He's playing
with his new guys.
See you later,
all right?
BOTH:
See you later.
[KEYBOARD CLICKING]
He's moving something
with all new guys,
a whole new crew.
QUEENAN: Where?
No, no, I can't tell you
what or where.
It's probably disinformation.
Just keep following him,
all right?
Listen, I need to see
you today.
Tomorrow, tomorrow.
No, no, no, today.
You heard nothing
about drugs.
COLIN:
No.
Nothing about new guys?
Nothing about Gloucester?
Not a thing,
and I would have.
That information
would have come to me.
[LINE CLICKS]
It ain't Bill.
No way, he says.
[♪♪♪]
[PHONE CLICKS,
THEN SPEED-DIALS]
Follow Costello,
you'll find his rat.
Yeah,
this is Sergeant Sullivan.
I want constant surveillance
on Captain Queenan,
starting right now.
Good. Thank you.
DETECTIVE 1:
Can I ask a question, sarge?
Why the fuck are we following
Captain Queenan?
To find out about
the good Catholic life?
I have to follow every lead,
however unlikely,
however fucking painful
it might be
to your delicate
fucking sensibility.
Who told you I had delicate
sensibilities?
I just don't like it, sarge.
It don't feel right.
I have reason to believe
that Captain Queenan
is Costello's rat.
So just follow him
and don't get made.
Sarge, we got
the target coming out.
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
Hey, where are you?
BILLY:
Look down the car.
You got me?
Yeah, I got ya.
Is there any reason
you would have a tail?
No.
'Cause I think--
Billy, I don't have a tail.
Get off at the next stop,
all right? South Station.
You wait there 10 minutes,
okay?
South Station,
wait 10 minutes.
[WOMAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY
OVER PA]
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
[SEAGULLS CAWING]
[♪♪♪]
[DOOR SHUTS]
He just went into a building
down the waterfront.
344 Wash.
You got that? 344 Wash.
[ELEVATOR WHIRRING]
He went up
to the top floor.
Building's empty.
There's no tenants here.
He's got dope coming in.
I don't know where he--
[SIGHS]
He's getting spooky, captain.
What you mean?
Just saw him.
He had blood all over his hands.
He's losing his fucking mind.
I don't know
what we're doing here, boys.
He's not including
his regular guys.
But I'm gonna tell you
something.
Sooner or later,
he's gonna find out who I am,
and he's gonna fucking kill me.
I know it.
All right.
He's gonna fucking kill me.
I think we got him.
I think Queenan's meeting
with him now.
All right, all right,
listen to me.
I'm really sorry
for your trouble.
I swear to God, I am.
I'll get you out of this.
I cannot do it overnight,
but I will get you out.
[RINGING]
Yeah?
Hey, get the van.
We're moving.
Heavy work.
What about the FBI?
Ah, they're compromised.
T-they're what?
They're fucked.
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
Yeah.
DELAHUNT: Where are you?
We've been trying to reach you.
We found the rat.
Listen, we're gonna
take him out.
Now, lookit,
the address
is 314 Washington Street.
You got it?
All right,
we'll see you there.
What?
You were followed.
By who?
By Costello's people.
Impossible.
No, one of the cops he's got
on the inside tipped him.
Come on, come on.
Come on!
[♪♪♪]
[TIRES SQUEALING]
What the fuck is going on?
DETECTIVE 2:
Fucking shit.
Queenan's meeting
with all of 'em.
[INDISTINCT CHATTER OVER RADIO]
Yeah.
He must be our guy.
DETECTIVE 1:
You gotta get him
outta here.
These guys are--
THUG 1:
Up on the roof!
THUG 2:
Come on, he's up on the roof.
QUEENAN:
Ah, Christ, it's too late.
Let's go back up.
BILLY: Shit.
QUEENAN: You get out of here.
Take the fire escape.
What about you?
I'll be fine,
but I can't protect you.
Now go! Go!
[SIGHS]
[LIGHTER CLICKING]
[COCKS]
One of you mugs got a light?
Where's your boy?
He's studying law at Notre Dame.
Where's your fucking boy?!
Hey!
Goddamn, motherfucker,
now, where's your fucking boy?!
I got the fucking gun!
[GLASS BREAKING]
[SEAGULLS CAWING]
What the fuck was that?
What--?
Did you fucking see that?
Something came
off the building.
[TEARFULLY]
What the fuck?
Oh, fuck.
Something came off the building?
Go again with that.
Something came off the roof.
I don't know what it was.
A body!
Fuck!
Can't get a visual.
Do you want us to get out?
We gotta get on foot if you
want me to get up on this thing.
Where were you?
What happened?
You're fucking late!
Get in the van!
Something came
off the roof?
I came to meet you!
Where the fuck have you been?
What the fuck--?
Get in the van! Get in the van!
I got four armed men
out front.
You want us to pursue?
No, do not pursue.
Stay in the car.
Fuck. No fucking pursuit!
I need some information.
What came off the roof?
No pursuit.
That's bullshit.
Fuck this.
Jeez!
[GUNSHOTS OVER RADIO]
Come on. Agh!
FITZY:
Richard! Get in the van!
[GUNSHOTS OVER RADIO]
Get in the fucking van!
Let's go!
Move it!
All right, I'm in!
DETECTIVE 2:
32X to CP!
We're being fired upon!
An officer is down!
I repeat,
an officer is down!
Trooper's been shot!
Send some back--!
So do you know why Queenan
went into that building?
No.
DIGNAM: A better question
is why the fuck were
your guys following him?
COLIN:
I told Internal Investigations
to follow Captain Queenan.
Why?
Internal Investigations'
business.
[DIGNAM GRUNTING]
Fucking piece of shit!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Hey, hey, hey!
Fucking bitch!
You fucking cocksucker!
Fuck off of me!
I don't have to explain
anything to anybody!
I can fucking investigate
anybody I fucking want to!
Let him go! Come on!
I don't care what you think!
I got reason to believe
that Queenan got killed
by his own fucking undercover.
That's a fucking lie.
He has fucking information
in a locked file,
as did Captain Queenan.
I need access to those files.
Forgot the password,
but if you come to the garage,
I'll be happy to give it to you.
That's a lie.
Nobody calls me a liar!
Shut up!
Work with the tech guys
to unlock those files.
Take a leave of absence.
A leave of what?
Queenan is dead.
I'm your boss now.
I don't give a fuck.
I'd rather hand in
my papers first.
World needs plenty
of bartenders.
Two weeks with pay.
Good.
Piece of shit.
Fuck off.
I need those codes.
No.
You want those codes.
So where the fuck were you?
[CLEARS THROAT]
Well, boss told me
to go home.
Whatever.
Maybe he did, maybe he didn't.
But you were not
fucking home.
So where the fuck were you?
I was at the grocery store
with no signal, all right?
When I got the signal,
I got the call.
What the fuck
do you want from me?
Was I there
or was I not there, huh?
DELAHUNT: Billy.
Huh?
Billy.
A guy shot him.
Yeah.
Come here. Come here.
Yeah?
You know what
I thought today?
Huh?
What's that?
Who didn't show up today...
is a rat.
[CHUCKLES]
Yeah?
So?
You never been late
in your life.
And...
when I called you...
Hm?
I-- I made a mistake.
I-- I gave you
the wrong address,
but...you showed up
at the right one,
didn't ya?
Tell me why I didn't
tell nobody, huh? Huh?
Tell me why.
[GASPING]
That cop was tough.
We were excessive
with the cop.
He's dead.
[OPERA MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm going home.
COLIN: Your guys should not
have done that.
COSTELLO: One of us had to die.
With me, it tends
to be the other guy.
Yeah, but Queenan.
Now I got no access.
You killed the guy
who had all the info.
Now Dignam's gone.
Forget about him.
He resigned.
Don't give a fuck about Dignam.
Yeah, he put in his papers,
Frank.
He left.
I don't know where he is.
Don't get your balls
in an uproar, Collie.
That Irish pissant,
he's so hot for me,
we give him a whiff of my ass,
he'll crawl right in it.
Let's give him a whiff.
I will.
Don't worry.
I'll take care of it.
COSTELLO:
Sweetheart.
You're giving me a hard-on.
Are you sure it's me?
Not all that talk about whiffing
and crawling up asses?
Watch your fucking mouth.
No.
You watch it.
Let me straighten you out.
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
I tried to call you
a few times.
Yeah, I-- I know.
Listen, I--
I can't be
a friend to you.
[TEARFULLY]
I'm sorry.
[QUIETLY]
Yeah.
Ahem, yeah.
I know.
[OPERA MUSIC RESUMES]
[MUSIC STOPS]
[LINE RINGING]
[BUZZING]
[RINGING]
Yeah.
You called this number
on a dead guy's phone.
Who are you?
So it is you.
Thank God you're all right.
We were very worried.
Who are you?
This is Sergeant Sullivan.
I'm taking over
Queenan's unit.
Let me talk to Dignam
to confirm it.
Staff Sergeant Dignam
is on a leave of absence.
He's very upset.
We're all very upset.
I mean--
I think the best thing would be
f-for you to come in.
We-- We need you to come in.
Can you come in?
Or meet me--
Police have confirmed that
the body of the man found dead
in the Fenway Marshes
yesterday afternoon
is that of Timothy Delahunt,
an undercover policeman
for the city of Boston.
This was the scene yesterday
when Delahunt's body was found
in the marshes near the Fenway.
As for who did this or why,
that's something police
are working on right now.
I don't believe it.
What can't you believe?
I spent all fucking night
dragging the poor bastard,
didn't I?
Tell me, how'd
they find him so fast?
Somebody walking a fucking dog
in 3 feet of mud?
What kind of fucking size
of dog is that?
Must've been
a big fucking dog, man.
I spent all fucking night
doing it, man.
I'm embarrassed.
I still don't believe
he was a cop.
I don't believe it.
The cops are saying
he's a cop...
so I won't look for the cop.
Are you soft, Fitz?
When I tell you
to dump a body
in the marsh,
you dump him
not where some guy
from John Hancock
goes every Thursday
to get a fucking blowjob!
Don't laugh!
This ain't reality TV!
Proceed.
[THE DROPKICK MURPHYS' "I'M
SHIPPING UP TO BOSTON" PLAYING]
♪ I'm a sailor peg ♪
♪ And I lost my leg! ♪
♪ Climbing up the topsails ♪
♪ I lost my leg! ♪
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
What?
Yeah, uh, you got a tail.
Two cars, not very subtle.
They're not gonna be
subtle from now on.
That's what I've been trying
to tell you.
So get rid of them.
There's no need for you
to go yourself, Frank.
Get rid of the fucking tail!
All right.
♪ I'm a sailor peg ♪
♪ And I lost my leg... ♪
Fucking rats.
It's wearing me thin.
Francis,
it's a nation
of fucking rats.
[INDISTINCT CHATTER OVER RADIO]
Stop. Stop.
Pull them off Costello.
No need to surveil him.
What the fuck
are you talking about?
I got it from an undercover.
He knows he's being followed.
So let's let
the UC take him in.
What undercover?
Queenan's guy.
He called me when he found out
Queenan was dead.
You give him to me.
No, no.
I can give you
Costello's destination.
You know where he's going?
Yes, and what he's doing.
So get rid of the tail.
Get Special Ops on standby.
We'll take this prick tonight.
All right, let's go now.
All units, fall back.
♪ And I lost my leg! ♪
♪ Climbing up the topsails ♪
♪ I lost my leg! ♪
All right, it's the warehouse
he owns over on Sheffield.
He's gotta have a container
or a truck there. Go, go, go.
[KNIFE CLICKS OPEN]
Load it.
Frank, how do you know
you don't have a tail, huh?
Were you not in the fucking car?
Yeah,
what if they took one off
and put another on?
Load!
[ENGINE STARTS]
Okay.
Go, go.
COSTELLO:
Come on,
what are you
waiting for?!
Frank wants me to check
the back, all right?
You go ahead.
Watch your fucking back.
COSTELLO:
Move out!
[SIRENS BLARING]
Cocksuckers.
Motherfuckers!
[GRUNTING]
[GUN COCKS]
Back the fuck up!
[GRUNTS]
[GASPING]
Fucking shot me.
[TIRES SCREECHING]
Come on, fucking bastard!
[GUNSHOTS IN DISTANCE]
[GASPING, COUGHING]
[GASPING]
Fuck it.
[KEYS BEEPING]
[CELL PHONE RINGING
IN DISTANCE]
[RINGING LOUDENS]
How the fuck did this happen?
You're an FBI informant?
Are you fucking kidding me?
[COUGHING]
Grow up.
[LAUGHING]
Of course I talk to the FBI.
Do they know who I am?
[LAUGHING]
I--
I never gave up anybody
who wasn't going down anyway.
Nobody knows nothing.
[CHUCKLES]
[GROANS]
Frank.
Frank. Frank.
Do they know about me?
I know about you, Collie.
You know I'd never give you up.
You're like a--
What, like a son?
To you?
[CHUCKLING]
Is that what this is about?
All that murdering
and fucking
and no sons.
[GASPING]
[GROANS]
Fucking rat prick!
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
GWEN:
Frank?
Yeah?
Who's this?
Gwen?
Where the hell's Frank?
Frank got shot.
Gwen, we lost Frank.
[OFFICERS SHOUTING
IN DISTANCE]
I got him!
I got Costello here!
[ALL APPLAUD]
MAN:
Hey, good job, sarge.
No, it's...
For you.
Thank you.
No.
He's been waiting here
a long time for you.
How'd you get him
without the files?
Caller ID. Queenan's phone.
Hm.
You know that guy?
Yeah.
We were classmates
in the academy together.
Yeah.
Good to see you, trooper.
Yeah. Ahem.
Colin Sullivan.
We spoke on the phone.
Yeah.
So...
Now, how long
were you undercover?
Long time.
Long fucking time.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, I can't even tell you
the debt...
I just want you to know
I'll be recommending you
for the Medal of Merit.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
It's kind of like a gold star
around here, huh?
It's the highest honor we got.
Look, I just want
my identity back, all right?
That's all.
All right.
I understand.
You want to be a cop again.
No, no.
Being a cop's not an identity.
I want my identity back.
Check your computer.
Go on.
You'll have to excuse
my behavior.
My only contact in the last six
months has been a police shrink.
How's that working for you?
Is it helpful?
What are you gonna do about
Costello's rat in this building?
I'm gonna find the prick.
Yeah.
I'm gonna find him,
and I'm gonna arrest him.
Good.
And if there's anything
you can do to help me...
You know, I mean, did Frank
ever mention a-- A name,
or, you know, anything?
Someone he was in contact with?
Anything you can give me?
I'm done being a cop, all right?
I just want my money,
and I wanna go home.
All right.
That'd be the best thing,
I think, for everybody.
Fair enough.
I just, I ca--
Can't get into your file
unless I have your password.
It's my name.
William Costigan Jr.
They gave it to me in case
I had to explain myself
to someone like you.
It's your name.
All right. Uh...
Fucking unreal. That's--
Well, it makes a lot of sense.
Listen, Bill, I got to run this
in the other room.
This computer's getting
all frigging blooey on me.
Give me two minutes. I'll have
you out of here in no time.
[♪♪♪]
[KEYBOARD CLICKING]
All right, everything checks
out, so let's get you paid.
I know.
I know. I'm not--
I'm not here for that, okay?
I'm not.
Listen, I've got
to give you something.
Something I need you to keep.
For me.
Okay?
What is it?
This is for you to hold.
Only you.
You open this if something
happens to me
or if I call you
and I tell you to open it.
You're the only person
I can trust, all right?
Please.
All right.
Look, I'm--
I'm sorry to even--
I'm sorry to even show up here
like this, you know.
I-- There's just no one else
I could give it to.
[LAUGHS]
There's no one else.
I'm really sorry.
I, uh...
Well, you know, I have, um...
I...
Whatever you have to say,
think about it real hard,
all right?
If you still want to tell me,
you tell me in two weeks, okay?
I was dreaming I was dead.
Oh. Death is hard.
Life is much easier.
What's this?
Open it.
Really?
Yeah.
[CHUCKLES]
And they-- They say
that this little speck
is a penis.
Wow.
It's a boy.
Mm, yeah, well, one
usually follows the other.
Can you still, uh...?
[LAUGHS]
COSTELLO:
I hope I won't have
to remind you
that if you don't find
this cheese-eating rat bastard
in your department,
you can assume it won't be me
who pays for it.
COLIN:
Now, why would you have
to remind me of that?
Would I--? Would I be
any good at what I do
if I didn't fucking already
know that?
Frank, you got to trust me.
I can get the rat.
You just got to let me do it
my way, Frank.
Just let me do it.
Let me do what I do.
Hey, it fucking involves lying
and I'm pretty fucking good
at that, right?
What?
COSTELLO:
We got a cop in my crew.
COLIN:
Yeah, I know.
I'm kind of getting
that feeling too.
COSTELLO:
He's one of yours. Inside.
You seen anything?
COLIN:
Frank. I got no access
to Queenan's undercover files.
He and Dignam run the snitches.
I'm doing my--
You know what,
I thought I was the liar.
Hey, I can explain that!
[♪♪♪]
Costello recorded everything.
He put all the tapes
in a little box
and kept them with his lawyer.
That was his insurance.
His lawyer came to me.
Imagine that, you rat fuck.
Costello trusted me
more than anyone.
Sound quality good enough?
'Cause I was a little worried.
What do you want?
I told you,
I want my identity back,
you two-faced faggot.
Look, where are you?
Three o'clock.
Where Queenan died.
You keep your cell on.
Open the door.
Open-- Didn't we already talk
about this?
This is my job.
Freeze!
Hey! Hey! Hey!
Get your fucking hands up!
Put the fucking gun down!
Put the gun down, all right?
I came here to talk
some sense into you.
Hands!
All right. Just act
professional.
I can get you your money.
What did you say?
Oh! Ah!
You didn't come here to talk.
You came here to get arrested.
You got fucking tapes
of what?
Costello was my informant!
I was a rat?
Fuck you! Prove it.
He was working for me.
He was my informant.
Shut your fucking mouth.
Come on, get up!
Wha--? What is this? A citizen's
arrest? Blow me, all right?
Only one of us is a cop here,
Bill.
You understand that, Bill?
No one knows who you are.
Would you shut the fuck up?
I'm a sergeant
in the Massachusetts State
Police. Who the fuck are you?
I erased you!
You erased me, huh?
Oh, yeah, go ahead, shoot a cop,
Einstein. Watch what happens.
This bullet would go right
through your fucking head.
Watch what happens!
What, so you can get the parade,
huh? The bagpipes and bullshit?
Fuck you! Fuck you,
I'm fucking arresting you!
Stupidest thing you could do.
Shut the fuck up!
I could give a fuck
if the charges don't stick.
I'm still fucking arresting you.
Get up.
Drop your weapon and step away
from Sergeant Sullivan!
I called you.
You specifically.
Look, you know who I am.
I'm not gonna shoot.
I told you, meet me downstairs.
Help me! Help! Help!
Put your weapon
on the deck
and step away
from Sergeant Sullivan!
Where's Dignam?
I told you to bring Dignam!
Shoot this motherfucker!
Would you fucking shoot?
Drop your weapon to the floor
and we'll discuss it.
Look, he's Costello's rat,
all right?
I got boxes of tapes. Evidence.
Other documents proving it.
Maybe you do.
But right now I need you
to drop the weapon.
I have evidence cold-linking
this prick to Costello, right?
COLIN:
Would you shoot
this fucking prick?
You know who I am.
I'm taking him down--
I'm taking him downstairs now.
You know who I am.
[GRUNTS]
Shut up.
I can't wait to see you
explain this
to a fucking Suffolk County
jury, you fucking cocksucker.
This is gonna be fucking fun.
[CLEARS THROAT]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
Just fucking kill me.
[TEARFULLY]
I am killing you.
[GUNSHOT]
Did you think you were the only
one he had on the inside?
Costello was gonna sell us
to the FBI.
It's you and me now,
you understand?
We gotta take care
of each other, you understand?
Give me that.
BAND LEADER:
Right. Slow. March.
[BAGPIPES PLAYING]
COLIN:
I attempted to subdue
Trooper Barrigan,
at which time
he drew down on me
and I was able
to squeeze off one shot
and, uh, strike him
in the head.
Uh, at that time I immediately
checked the vitals
on both Troopers Brown
and Costigan
and discovered that--
That they had expired.
I just want to go on record.
I'm recommending
William Costigan
for the Medal of Merit.
Eternal rest grant
unto him, O Lord.
OFFICER 1: Ready? Fold.
PRIEST: And let perpetual light
shine upon him.
May he rest in peace. Amen.
May his soul and the souls
of all the faithful departed,
through the mercy of God,
rest in peace.
Amen.
OFFICER 2:
Detail. Half left. Face.
Prepare to fire.
Fire.
[GUNSHOTS]
Prepare to fire. Fire.
Prepare to fire.
Fire.
[GUNSHOTS]
Detail. Half right. Face.
I'll catch up
with you guys.
What about the baby?
[BELL DINGS]
Hi, pup.
Okay.
[GUNSHOT]
[BODY THUDS ON FLOOR]
[♪♪♪]